# Arbitration-Tit-for-Tat


This repository contains the Mathematica and Matlab files used in the following paper: 

Title: Arbitration supports reciprocity when there are frequent perception errorsAuthors: Sarah Mathew and Robert Boyd
Affiliations: School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State UniversityCorrespondence to: Sarah.Mathew@asu.edu

Abstract: Cooperation based on reciprocity is undermined by perception errors, mistakes that cause interacting individuals to disagree about past behavior.  Strategies like Win-Stay-Lose-Shift (WSLS) and Generous Tit for Tat (GTFT) can reestablish cooperation following a perception error but only when errors arise infrequently. We introduce a strategy labelled Arbitration-Tit-for-Tat (ATFT), which uses third-party arbitration to align players’ beliefs about what transpired when they disagree. We show that ATFT is evolutionarily stable against a range of plausible strategies that defect, cooperate, ignore arbitration, or invoke arbitration unnecessarily. Furthermore, ATFT can persist even when perception errors are frequent and the opinions of arbitrators are inaccurate or biased. The need for third-parties to resolve perception errors could explain why reciprocity is rare in other animals despite opportunities for repeated interactions, and why human reciprocity is embedded within culturally transmitted moral norms in which community monitoring plays a role. The Mathematica files are the files needed for solving the simultaneous equations presented in the Supplementary Information of the paper, in order to calculate expected payoffs of ATFT and other plausible invading strategies. The Matlab files are the files used for creating plots presented in the paper and Supplementary Information. 